dDeploying a model takes an AI model and makes it available for use in production through a stable, scalable, and secure endpoint.

Deployment parameters that you can customize in Foundry include:
	Deployment type: such as standard, global batch, and regional provisioned throughput, determine where and how inference is processed in Foundry. Deployment types are tied to throughput and data‑processing requirements.
	Model version
	Tokens per minute (TPM) rate limit
		A token is the smallest unit of text or data that a generative AI model can process. Models break input into tokens—such as words, subwords, characters, or punctuation—so they can understand and generate language 			efficiently.

When you deploy a model in Foundry, several things occur:
	Compute resources are allocated: Foundry assigns the hardware needed to run the model—CPUs, GPUs, memory, networking, and scaling rules.
	An API endpoint is created: You're able to securely invoke the model through the OpenAI Responses API, validated through management API checks.
	Configuration (such as model version, response style, safety settings) is locked in
	Monitoring and logging become active: usage metrics, performance, latency, errors, and costs are tracked

In Microsoft Foundry, generative AI models and agents are related but serve different purposes.
	Models = raw intelligence
	Agents = packaged, task‑oriented workers built on top of that intelligence

An agent in Microsoft Foundry is a packaged, reusable AI component that brings together three things:
	A model: the generative AI model the agent uses for reasoning (for example, GPT‑4.1)
	Instructions: the system prompt that defines the agent’s role, behavior, style, constraints, and output rules
	Tools: the actions the agent can take	

Agents can:
	Call external tools (APIs, functions, retrieval) automatically
	Break goals into structured steps
	Maintain working memory during a conversation
	Process user input, decide actions, and generate structured outputs

1. What best describes Foundry's model catalog?
	A central hub to discover, filter, compare, and test many generative AI models from multiple providers
2. Which statement best describes a foundation model in Microsoft Foundry?
	A large, pretrained model that provides general capabilities and can be used immediately or customized
3. In the Foundry portal, what is the primary benefit of using the Model Playground before writing code?
	It lets you test prompts, compare models, and capture working settings that you can reuse in code.
4. What is the primary outcome of publishing an agent in Microsoft Foundry?
	It converts the agent into a managed Azure resource with a stable endpoint that you can share and integrate without exposing your Foundry project or source code.
5. In the Python example, which line is responsible for calling the published agent (rather than calling a model deployment directly) when generating a response?
	response = openai_client.responses.create(input=[{'role': 'user', 'content': 'Tell me 
	what you can help with.''}], extra_body={'agent': {'name': agent.name, 'type': 
	'agent_reference'}},)