Speech recognition, speech-to-text (STT), is an AI capability that enables apps and agents to respond to spoken input.
	Mainly uses two models:
		Acoustic model that converts the audio into phonemes.
		Language model that maps phonemes to words.

	Developing an application
		The Python SDK can be installed in the Visual Studio Code terminal using: pip install azure-cognitiveservices-speech
		To use Azure Speech, you also need to create a Foundry resource. The Foundry resource endpoint and key is used in your code to authenticate your connection.
		Consider the following Python code (2.4-recognition_code.txt). When you run it:
			Your app initializes the Speech SDK: Provides an endpoint and authentication (key or Microsoft Entra ID)
			Audio is captured or loaded: Microphone input or an audio file/stream
			Audio is sent to Azure Speech: The SDK streams or uploads audio securely
			Speech recognition runs in the cloud: Azure’s speech models analyze the audio
			Text results are returned: Your app receives recognized text and optional metadata

Speech synthesis, often called text-to-speech (TTS), is concerned with vocalizing data, usually by converting text to speech.
	requires the following information:
		The text to be spoken
		The voice to be used to vocalize the speech
	To synthesize speech, the system tokenizes the text to break it down into individual words, and assigns phonetic sounds to each word. 
	It then breaks the phonetic transcription into prosodic units (such as phrases, clauses, or sentences). 
	The system creates phonemes from the prosodic units. These phonemes are then synthesized as audio and can be assigned a particular voice, speaking rate, pitch, and volume.
	Developing an application
		Consider the following Python code ( .txt). When you run it:
			Your app initializes the Speech SDK: Provides an endpoint and authentication (key or Microsoft Entra ID)
			Text is provided
			Text is sent to Azure Speech: The SDK handles the request and formatting
			Speech synthesis runs in the cloud: Neural models generate audio
			Audio is returned: Your app plays, streams, or saves the audio temporarily

1. Why would a developer use the Azure Speech‑to‑Text SDK instead of only using the Foundry playground?
	The SDK allows speech recognition to be added directly into application code.
2. What does the Azure Text‑to‑Speech SDK handle for developers?
	Authentication, network communication, and audio generation
3. What role does the Voice Live Python SDK (azure-ai-voicelive) play in a voice‑enabled agent?
	It opens a real‑time connection, streams audio, and handles spoken responses and interruptions